```
EX·QUIS·ITE·LY

In an extremely beautiful, delicate, or finely detailed manner.
```

# PREFACE

In environmental ambivalence or betterly known as to-day, is a beautiful example of strong determinism. From technology,
by technology, for technology in principle. Those who just woke up are exchanging themselves for technology. Not because
of love, but because they have no free will. I would like to emphasize here, the technology itself does not have free
will. Therefore, why the common one have no free will and become the virtual ouroboros?

Instead of expressing thought through an interface, society commonly impressing themselves by an interface. They bite
their own tails by misidentifying themselves. Which eventually causes stress and confusion. Even worse, beautifully
inhumane. Not the technology causes it all, but technology consent it all. The problem is impractical, this is a
time-less culture. *By the technology, human potentially utilize other human as a technology.*

Skills and measures such as intelligence and creativity are useless. They are only useful if whoever is being measured
conforms to the ideals of society, or precisely systemic culture. For example, if a student is required to master a
technology, while the technology is too complicated. Consequently, the student simply hand it over to those they call
"experts". When chaos ensues, where does their intelligence and creativity measure up?

If they do not conform to the ideals, they will be marginalized from society. Nevertheless, they are free from society
and they do not even will for it. When we are truly FREE TO CHOOSE the technology we use, we are also free to determine
ourselves towards society. They are not wrong, but we are wrong simply because we obey society rather than our own
conscience. Mine may be different from yours, but I have spent my entire life to contemplate my surroundings.

From the fragrance of Jasminum sambac, to the swirls of infinite words. I am not an expert, and there are no things such
as "experts". Those are just labelling system and no further explanation, as I said *before*. I wrote this is to
articulate my latent ideas, while developing them within this. Forgive me if I am wrong, I could not find an effective
and efficient solution other than by education with this.

This web-book is divided into the following parts.

1. [**The Live Environment**](./1.THE-LIVE-ENVIRONMENT.md)  
   Parts 1 orchestrating step-by-step of installing Artix Linux on desired machine with ease and accountable.
2. [**The Art of Linux**](#the-art-of-linux)  
   Parts 2 guides the reader why and how to create an art with modular technology such as Linux system.

If questioning "Why Artix Linux?", then there will be endless questions and answers just because it is the predication
of "The **Art** of **Linux**". Keeping the "why" will only deceive yourself, the question should be changed to "How do I
solve my predetermined problem?". And from it, I can learn from myself and not just pay for services or any
materialistic exchange. This is where intellect, creativity, and wisdom emerge.

# The Art of Linux

After successfully completing the installation in and through The Live Environment, you should boot to "Artix Linux-Zen"
by opening boot menu during POST, or set the firmware's boot priority/menu to set it as default boot. Next, normally we
should login as unprivileged user.

## Arch User Repository Helper

The main reason to install an AUR helper is for ease-of-use rationale. First, install git as privileged user.

```sh
doas pacman -S git
```

Install an AUR helper. [Paru](https://github.com/Morganamilo/paru) is the second helper that captured my heart.

```sh
pushd /tmp/ && \
git clone --depth 1 https://aur.archlinux.org/paru.git

pushd paru/ && \
makepkg -si

popd && popd
```

<br>...<br>

```
Written by owl4ce.
© 2025 owl4ce
https://github.com/owl4ce/exquisitely
```
